# Introduction

The OpenChain Initiative began in 2013 when a group of software supply chain open source practitioners observed two emerging patterns: 1) significant process similarities existed among organizations with mature open source compliance programs; and 2) there still remained a large number of organizations exchanging software with less developed programs. The latter observation resulted in a lack of trust in the consistency and quality of the compliance artifacts accompanying the software being exchanged. As a consequence, at each tier of the supply chain, downstream organizations were frequently redoing the compliance work already performed by other upstream organizations.

A study group was formed to consider whether a standard program specification could be created that would: i) facilitate greater quality and consistency of open source compliance information being shared across the industry; and ii) decrease the high transaction costs associated with open source resulting from compliance rework. The study group evolved into a work group, and in April 2016, formally organized as a Linux Foundation collaborative project.

The Vision and Mission of the OpenChain Initiative are as follows:

* **Vision**: A software supply chain where free/open source software (FOSS) is delivered with trusted and consistent compliance information.
* **Mission**: Establish requirements to achieve effective management of free/open source software (FOSS) for software supply chain participants, such that the requirements and associated collateral are developed collaboratively and openly by representatives from the software supply chain, open source community, and academia.

In accordance with the Vision and Mission, this specification defines a set of requirements that if met, would significantly increases the probability that an open source compliance program had achieved a sufficient level of quality, consistency and completeness; although a program that satisfies all the specification requirements does not guarantee full compliance. The requirements represent a base level (minimum) set of requirements a program must satisfy to be considered OpenChain Conforming. The specification focuses on the “what” and “why” qualities of a compliance program as opposed to the “how” and “when” considerations. This ensures a practical level of flexibility that enables different organizations to tailor their policies and processes to best fit their objectives.

Section 2 introduces definitions of key terms used throughout the specification. Section 3 presents the specification requirements where each one has a list of one or more Verification Artifacts. They represent the evidence that must exist in order for a given requirement to be considered satisfied. If all the requirements have been met for a given program, it would be considered OpenChain Conforming in accordance with version 1.1 of the specification. Verification Artifacts are not intended to be public, but could be provided under NDA or upon private request from the OpenChain organization to validate conformance.